[ Music ]
>> Nelson Mandela: In today's
world, many of the
problems we face are global
in nature.
>> Richard Branson: The
greatest satisfaction people
can get from life is making a
difference to other people's
lives.
>> Brett Moran: It's all about
building your confidence,
facing your fears. >> Woman 1:
That is a legend.
>> Moran: String to string
you're going.
>> Woman 1: Proper legend to
me. Don't know where I'd be
without him. >> Branson: If
everybody
could think like that, that
they would get so much
more satisfaction out of life
themselves, and they could
transform other
people's lives. >> Gregg
Braden: When we look at
the context of where we are in
our world and our lives today,
the best minds of our
time are telling us in no
uncertain terms we're in trouble
here on planet Earth.
[ Music ]
>> Alison Pothier: I feel we
are in
the time of the greatest
creativity
available to humanity because
we have
the ability to do something
different.
>> Jack Canfield: The choices
we make now have the power to
destroy our
planet, to destroy each other,
to destroy civilization,
or to transform it and take it
to the next level.
>> Braden: Each time
the cycle comes to an end, it
opens a window
of opportunity called a choice
point.
[ Music ]
>> Harry Massey: How we're in
our global crises, the question
that many of
us are asking is how come we've
got all these technological
solutions, we've got the people
and the passion,
how on earth is it that these
solutions end up being blocked
by the love of
power whereas instead, wouldn't
it perhaps be better if we
could all get up, align our
purposes, and come from the
power of love to see
these solutions through.
[ Music ]
>> James Caan: I saw the floods
I suppose just like millions of
people
did but for me, watching them
on TV just wasn't enough. I felt
I had to come myself and see
what had happened and how the
people were affected.
[ Music ]
>> Newswoman: Pakistan's Prime
Minister today described the
floods
devastating his country as the
worst in its history.
>> Caan: And how high was the
mud?
BIBp
>> Caan: If you look at worldRBF
poverty today,
you know, we have 6 billion
people on the planet. You know,
the world economy, you know, is
huge. It's ginormous.
When you look around you here,
what people really need is
quite humble
existence here.
It only takes each of us to give
a very small amount, and I
believe we can always eliminate
poverty.
>> Massey: From this
determination to overcome
crises, new and creative
solutions
can be born.
>> Newswoman: I am quite
literally clambering over the
roofs of people's homes.
>> Barbara Marx-Hubbard:
Problems are evolutionary
drivers. This is
true of your own life. It's
driving you. You don't always
respond, but
if you do, you'll probably find
you're going towards something
more creative.
Problems are evolutionary
drivers. Crises
often precede transformation
and innovation. So when you
feel a crises coming
on in your own life or in the
world, look for
what's innovative.
>> Massey: From my experience,
crises can
often lead to wonderful new
beginnings.
When I was at university, I
used to go rock climbing during
the day,
mountaineering in the holidays,
and then I used to party most
of the night.
I just loved dancing. I used to
dance at least 5 times a week.
Unfortunately, there was this
downside to this hedonistic
lifestyle
and as the years went on, my
life turned into a complete
disaster.
During that time, I started
getting
increasingly tired and ended up
having an ice climbing accident
where I fractured my
spine. From then, I ended up
having 8 whole years
in bed with chronic fatigue
syndrome, staring up at a blank
ceiling.
I even had to do my university
exams from a wheelchair.
At that time, I felt my life
was completely over. I had
almost no
choices. I was feeling
completely isolated and
trapped. I didn't know what to
do, but deep down
I wasn't willing to accept how
my life was. I was sure there
was another path.
>> Narrator: We all
have our choice points in our
lives that lead us somewhere
else. The question that
matters most, though, is what
will you do at yours?
[ Music ]
>> Alison Pothier: My career
started in
New York City working for the
heads of the futures and
options business and moved
quite quickly
to running a team over in
London on-boarding clients and
legal negotiations. I ended up
in management
and over a 15 year career in
investment banking, a very short
period of time, ended up the
global head of electronic
trading
and then a Chief Operating
Officer and Managing Director
in the city. So by 30, I
was the global head of what I
did and I
was, to all intents and
purposes, a success
as measured in the eyes of the
world at large. This is what
you're supposed to aspire to.
[ Music ]
>> Brett Moran: My life back
then was really dishonest. I
lived on a whim,
I lived on a lie.
Constantly from day to day, I
was dishonest
with drug dealers, I was
dishonest with family and
friends. I was ripping people off.
[ Music ]
I was constantly lying and
blagging to try and get more
money to get
more drugs, but the most
important person I was
dishonest to was myself. I was
putting on a big mask. I was
lying. I lied so much that I was
believing my own lies.
My mom was a typical housewife
and my dad was
racist with some very
judgmental opinions about the
world.
For me, I wanted to become that
person so then he
could love me more. So I was
arrested for
racism as a child. I was
arrested for violence.
[ Music ]
Everything that my dad was
doing, I seemed to be copying.
I was getting into drug
dealing, carjacking.
I just - a few friends that
would do armed robberies, and
I'd become like a driver,
and even when I used to sit in
the car waiting for people to
do it, I used to know and think
to myself that this was so
wrong, that I was on the wrong
path, but
somehow the drugs and the
lifestyle took over.
[ Music ]
>> Pothier: I'm getting on
flights, I'm making the money,
I'm
growing in the organization,
and suddenly I come
back home from a business trip
and life
is flipped.
[ Music ]
I had, within a matter of weeks,
a miscarriage,
husband having an affair with
the secretary in the
company, and told that you
might have breast
cancer.
I would go into work and I
would do my job because that
was the one thing that I knew
how to do. So in my room at one
point,
I hit my head trying to get
some luggage out for the next
flight I was going to
take, and I realized no one
would know I was there,
and I remember thinking okay,
I've had enough, and I screamed
at the top of my lungs. I
absolutely screamed at the top
of my lungs, all I need
is some help.
I was on the phone with Dad and
he said,
'Al, how're you doing?' and I
said, 'I am really not good.'
He said,
'Al, no one can take life from
you,' and I
said, 'My problem isn't that
anyone took anything from me.
My problem is
I don't feel anything, and if I
don't feel anymore
and I don't see a purpose
anymore in why we do what
we do, I want out,' and it shot
through
me like, I can't believe my
father has to
hear me say I don't want the
life he gave me,
and it's that bad.
[ Wind blowing ]
>> Moran: I was trying to
pretend that life was great,
life was good, but behind closed
doors, you know, I used to cry
myself to sleep, contemplate
suicide.
I picked up tablets, but I
never went through with it. I
picked up the scissors to, you know, cut
my wrists, but I never went
through with it.
[ Music ]
I was at the lowest of the
lows. I was in a very
dark place in my mind, in my
world.
I was at, you know, my rock
bottom. And I'm not saying that
-
I don't know whether I had a
choice or whether I thought
about it.
It just happened. I just
stopped, froze, and just sort of
looked inside myself.
And that fear kicked in. What
was it going to be like in
prison?
Was I going to get beaten up?
What are the other people going
to be like? I'm not prison material.
What have I done? It just felt
like my whole life, my whole
world just completely stopped in that
one moment. The worst thing was
the reaction of my mom. When I
seen my mom and
seen how much I really
hurt her, it reconfirmed all
the crimes and the lifestyle I
was
sort of living. It just sort of
showed me how much I was
hurting people.
>> Massey: When we come to the
end of a cycle in our lives,
we're at the choice point and
the transition can feel like a
real
struggle. [ Music ]
[ Music ]
>> John Paul DeJoria: I was
homeless on a couple of
occasions. When I
started John Paul Mitchell
Systems living in my car, I was
a bit homeless. I had a
choice both times. First time,
am I going to succumb to this,
oh
poor me, oh no, or am I going
to have the choice to get a way
out of this?
First time I was homeless, I
was 23 years old, and I had a
son two and a half
years old. I went up and picked
up soda pop bottles, cashed
them in at
grocery stores for a couple of
cents and made it happen.
>> Scilla Elworthy: Just like a
caterpillar into a butterfly,
you begin to feel a bit
uncomfortable with the way
things are. If
one feels a kind of unease or a
need to do
something, that's the first
indication that you're getting
ready to change.
You're not happy in your job
anymore. You
would like things to have more
meaning.
>> Massey: As you enter a
choice point and you start
experiencing a
crises, you quickly learn
humility because what you
thought was going to work out,
doesn't work out and therefore
you realize
that there's much larger forces
at play than just yourself.
Really a choice point is a
wake-up call, a time
to be able to read the signs
and then make better choices
for a much better future cycle.
[ Music ]
>> Moran: This book seemed to
just fall out from the shelf.
It's as though it just sort of fell out
in front of me. I just seemed
to pick thi book up and just
sort of -
for that one split second, and
it sounds completely mad
and very woo-woo, but for that
one split second, it felt like
I wasn't in that prison
sentence. It felt like the
world just stopped spinning. It
just felt like everything just
disappeared. It sounds mad and
when I picked the book up, it
just felt like I
was so connected with it.
It was called Moment by Moment
and the Practice and Art of
Meditation.
[ Music ]
>> DeJoria: There were times in
my life when
being the bad guy. Boy, did I
get away from my purpose. I
helped cause it.
When I was down and out in
making those choices, a lot of
that choice had to do with how
well you felt about
your own ability inside, not the
circumstances that you are in.
If you feel and know,
by gosh, I have that
opportunity and I'm going to be
a winner
no matter what it takes, I'm
going to make it out of this no
matter what it
takes, you do it. The minute
you start agreeing that
everyone's
against you, you start blaming
where you're at on everything
and
everybody else, and then you go
further in, and further in, and
further in, and you
carry hate around with you as
time goes along. That choice was
I'm going to get out of this no
matter what it takes. Because
I'm here, I'm here.
That's how it happened. Either
I was destined to be here and
learn lessons - which did
.happen to me several times in
my life, okay? - or this is my
time to
be able to say I'm a human
being, I'm alive. I'm not a
clam in a clam shell or an oyster
in an oyster shell. I'm going
to do something because I can.
I don't care what it takes,
I'm going to overcome it, and
that was a good choice.
[ Music ]
>> Pothier: I looked in the
mirror at myself and said
is this what I meant for
myself? Do I
recognize myself in this moment?
Is this where I want to be
going in my life?
It wasn't all about money.
It wasn't that position or that
title that defined
me internally. Where is me, the
person that
I remember I was when I was a
kid
sitting on the steps with a
dream. Where is that dream?
[ Music ]
>> Massey: Birke's dream is to
be a basketball player.
>> Birke Baehr: I decided that
I'd
rather be an organic farmer
instead. >> Massey: But this
all changed when he
discovered the unhealthy
effects of the food industry on
his generation,
resulting in the label
Generation Z. >> Baehr: It made
me
mad when my generation has been
branded as
Generation Z, as the most
unhealthy, and unfit, and most
obese
generation since I guess
recorded time. And
that way, I can have a greater
impact on the world. >> Massey:
What happens to people who
choose to align their purpose
so early on? In his teenage
years, someone else also wanted
to communicate a message to his
generation.
>> Richard Branson: Well, I was
15 once and I was
at school and I think like a
lot of
15 year olds, I vehemently
disagreed with the Vietnamese
War,
and students didn't have a
voice,
and I thought maybe we could
start a national magazine for
young people to give young
people a voice and to
campaign against issues we felt
strongly about. And so I
worked out of the school phone
books, managed to sell enough
advertising to cover the
printing and the paper costs,
and my headmaster
gave me the choice of either
staying at school and not doing
the magazine, or leaving school and
doing the magazine, and so I
said goodbye and headed off
to do the magazine. >> Massey:
What though, if we still
haven't found
our purpose? What if we're
still trying to make sense of
it all of what to do
and where to go?
>> Moran: It just felt
like every time I was doing a
bad act, or I was lying, or I
was cheating, I was taking
drugs, or I was committing
crime, that it wasn't me. It
wasn't the
person I should be. It felt
like there was two paths and
for some reason, I'm still walking
that path because of these old
beliefs, because of these old
patterns, and I felt the path that
had to be taken, the more
heartfelt path, was the one that
was more congruent for me, the
one that had the feel-good
factor, so every
time I went against it, I felt
like I was coming away from the
path, which made me feel worse. I
wanted to come back, I wanted
to come back onto that right
path.
>> David Hamilton: It's
actually hard to change
behavior, and it's not a case of
just saying, 'Okay, I've
decided this now and my life
forever will go
in that direction.' You've got
to work at it. >> DJ: Somebody
scream and you will go faster.
[ Music ]
Every day of our lives presents
us with the opportunity to
choose, presents us
with a choice point because
there's lots of little patterns
unfolding in life,
so any time in our lives we
even feel, I need to make a
decision now, that's
a choice point. So we don't
necessarily have to wait til
the great big, huge
crises in our life, just the
moments from day to day that we
really
feel we have to make a choice
to do something important, to
think something important,
Then we really can change our
lives, and our lives will
unfold in a
different direction.
[ Music ]
>> Robert Quinn: Crises
push us outside of our comfort
zone. We have a lousy, terrible
experience, but if we
look at them carefully, there
are these amazing things we
learn.
>> Massey: I thought to myself
if I'm trying to get
myself better, I might as well
be helping others to get
better, too.
Wouldn't it be good if there
was some sort of health system
that could work
out what was wrong with people
from the comfort of their own
homes and help them
to get better, too? I didn't
realize it at the time, but
that was my
own choice point for starting
to align my purpose. Yet,
I was ill in bed, I didn't have
a clue how to do it, and I had
absolutely no
money. However, an incredible
set of coincidences
started to happen, and I
started to meet the right type
of people to help me on
my journey, and we ended up
with a health system many,
many practitioners could help
many, many more, and the
business
started to succeed, and I also
go better, too.
What's been completely
incredible to me
is how on earth, against almost
impossible odds,
did I go from being ill in bed
to actually creating a health
business?
What I began to wonder is
whether there were patterns in
people's
success, of whether they'd
aligned themselves with
something that was far greater than their
own selfish desires to help
them to be able to succeed in
life.
So I decided to embark upon a
journey
to find out and met some
incredible people to work out
whether there was some sort of
common philosophy that both
helped them to succeed
in their own lives but also go
on to make a difference, too.
[ Music ]
>> Pothier: And so I woke up
and I thought, right,
this is the way we're going to
do this. I'm going to allow
myself to have
madness with no limitation,
and I'm going to allow myself
to be logical and
grounded with no limitation. As
long as I've got
this side of me intact, this
side of me is playing,
and I will show up and do my
job and I will
open the doors to all the rest
and have a look.
And I will study it to check.
I'll give it some time.
So it was a survival technique.
I called it having magic
glasses.
I decided in any moment
to see it for what it looked
like and then have another look.
When I thought I saw it again
in another set of eyes, change
it again.
Continually change my
perception on everything
to give it another possibility
over, and over,
and over again. How does this
whole thing work?
[ Music ]
>> Massey: What does science
have to say about patterns and
how they may be affecting our lives?
>> Vlatko Vedral: I think as a
physicist, you know, we are
really all simpletons. You
know, we study very simple
systems, but I think
you know, the mutual
relationships, the fact that no
object in this universe is an
isolated object and completely
independent
certainly has got to have some
implications on that.
>> Scilla Elworthy: The
sense of interconnectedness is
very ancient. It was
understood by Taoists in China
millennia ago.
It has also been understood in
Africa. For
centuries and centuries, the
concept of Ubuntu that Desmond
Tutu talks
about, and that means I am
because you are. We
are interconnected. What I do
and even what I think
affects another person or
possibly the whole
human population in some way.
So, it's
not as though we're separate.
We are all interconnected.
When
people act in unison, they act
almost
like a flock of starlings. When
a great flock of birds
wheels and moves, how do they
know to move as one?
But I have witnessed again and
again,
people acting together with
enormous power. >> Gregg
Braden: Almost universally,
ancient texts and traditions
have reminded
us that we are connected,
accept that we are one, that we
are part of our world, that
we're part of one another, that
we're part of the earth and
the changes in the universe.
[ Music ]
>> Vedral: In physics,
we really tend to think of us
physicists as
the observers of nature.
Actually if you look at it
a little bit more deeply, and
if you ask
yourself what is it that
discriminates me and makes me
into an observer,
then you will not really find
anything behind that because
after all, I'm just
a bunch of atoms. If you view
it like that, then really
the key element is not really
the observer or the observed,
but the interaction between the
two. The observer and the
observed could
easily switch roles, so you
could equally well say there is
nature out
there making an observation on
me, and that would be as correct
as saying I'm the one making
observations on nature.
>> Massey: Perhaps, rather than
the
simplistic view that your world
is just created by you as in
the Law of Attraction
thinking, perhaps there are
patterns in the universe that
are creating us, too.
To understand how these
patterns may be affecting us,
let's take a look at
what these patterns might be.
>> Braden: Our reality, as
chaotic as it looks to us
from time to time, is actually
built out of relatively few
simple patterns that simply
repeat themselves again and
again and
again and combine in different
ways to give us the reality as
we know it today.
[ Music ]
>> Ian Stewart: Let's go for the
big sky and look out into the
universe into space.
The galaxy is about 200 billion
stars,
but they clump together like a
kind of whirlpool in space.
In a spiral, it flows in
towards the middle. Spirals are
very, very common
as mathematical patterns from
the huge scale of galaxies
right down to snail shells.
[ Music ]
Go out in your back garden,
look at a snail. The shell is
spiral. If you look at
whirlpool, a little one
maybe in a river, that's water
moving round and
round in a spiral. It flow in
toward the middle. The
wonderful thing
is that when you look at these
patterns, they're not just once
off's. They keep coming up. The same
pattern comes up all over the
place.
[ Music ]
Across all the
world's desserts, you see the
same basic 5 or 6 different
kinds of sand
dune. There are ones that just
form straight lines. There are
beautiful
crescent-shaped dunes which
slowly move. Then if you go out
into the Solar System, look on
Mars, all of the same
patterns of dunes are appearing
on Mars. If you see a very
striking mathematical pattern
repeated on several different
planets, let alone across the
surface of the Earth, that says
the same
kinds of laws of nature must be
operating everywhere. It's not
just
all chaotic and random. There
are perhaps secret rules behind
the scenes
which governs how the natural
world really behaves.
[ Music ]
Recognizing that a plant is a
fractal doesn't, of itself, say
very much.
It's just giving a name to the
shape, but if you can
understand the growth rules for the
plant, the way that the
genetics of the plant must be
every so often saying,
when you come to a bud, maybe
you put out a new shoot,
and then the rules for the new
shoot are the same as the rules
for the original shoot.
So it's almost as if it's got
some little program that
it's running, some recipe, and
every so often the recipe says,
when you
got to this point, go back to
the beginning, but do it from
here.
>> Massey: Fractals exist
everywhere in
nature and the reality around
us. Do these patterns perhaps
connect and
affect our everyday lives, too,
and what power does that give
us to improve our
destinies for the better? >>
David Hamilton: It's very easy
for us to think that
we are separate from nature. We
drive our cars to work, we live
in
houses, we walk about and get
on with our lives, and it seems
the world is happening outside
of us, but that's not exactly
the case.
We're actually part of nature,
and nature has these cycles
which
influence our behavior. The
cycle of the
Earth going around the Sun
gives us the seasons, but that
changes the
availability of the food that
we eat, and that then changes
the chemistry of our
body, so what we see in our
lives is the way in which our
biology is working is actually
a consequence of
cycles in nature.
>> Jack Canfield: There's
patterns in seasons in nature,
there's
patterns of the lunar cycles
that affect people. I mean,
I've had nights where my whole family
couldn't sleep because it was a
full moon, you know. Why is
that? There's
a pattern there and as we
understand these patterns and
cooperate with these patterns,
then it's like you get to dance
through life rather than be
dragged through life.
[ Music ]
>> Massey: So perhaps there are
points in the cycles and
patterns of our lives where it's easier to
change and choose to do
something different. >> Braden:
When one
cycle ends before the next
cycle begins, there's a
window of time where neither
exists,
where neither one exists, and
it's in that place
where we have the greatest
opportunity, where our choices
have the greatest
potency to change the pattern,
the oscillation,
the cycle of the past before it
begins the next cycle.
So the idea of a seed setting a
cycle into motion,
and a choice point opening at
the end of one cycle before the
next
begins gives us an evolutionary
edge that
perhaps our ancestors did not
have.
[ Music ]
>> Hamilton: In life terms,
what that would mean is if
you're traveling down a path
and you get to a fork in the
path, so the choice point is
you could choose to continue
along the same path that you've
been
on in the past, or you can
choose a different path which
would represent, choose a
different way of acting, a
different way of behavior, a different way
of thinking. >> Braden: But the
key is
that while we certainly may
choose at any time in our
lives, and it's good to do so,
there are times
when the physics stacks the
deck in our favor and gives us
the
edge that allows our choices to
have a greater potency and if
we're going to make powerful
choices of healing for
ourselves,
of peace for our communities or
for our world, to me it makes
perfect sense to use that
opportunity. So if we bring all
this information together,
the picture that it is
beginning to paint for us,
it is an awesome picture. It's
an amazing - it's a beautiful
empowering picture
of us as part of rather than
separate from the world around
us. We are intimately
entwined, enmeshed in all that
we know as our lives
and our world.
>> James Caan: Finding your
place in society, finding your
place in
that world I think is
absolutely key.
>> Canfield: I also believe
that there
are things we can call external
reality that you
have to be aware of, you know,
whether those are patterns,
whether it's a
train coming down the track at
you. You know, if there's a
train coming down the track,
you'd better get off the track.
If there's a wave coming in,
you either better know how to
surf or swim, or you better get
back on the shore.
We can learn to cooperate with
these patterns, we can learn to
cooperate
with cycles and trends and so
forth.
>> Caan: The journey of
success is about constantly
learning. It's constantly
evolving.
You have to listen, and listen
to the people around you because
sometimes you'll get clear
messages saying this just
isn't going to work and you
just want to carry on because
you read a book
somewhere that says never give
up, but I don't think it's
smart to
carry on on something that
isn't going to work and you
carry on until you've lost everything.
[ Music ]
>> Richard Branson: I think the
times that Virgin has succeeded
is when we've been much, much
better than
all our competitors and we've
created something
you know, of quality, something
which we can be really proud
of. I mean, I'm
here today in Dallas taking on
American Airlines
with Virgin America, a domestic
airline,
tiny compared to American
Airlines, but
because it's so much better, I
think it will succeed whereas
when we
took on Coca-Cola, who are also
based here
Virgin Cola, it tasted as good,
but it wasn't something that
dramatically set it apart from
Coca-Cola and
therefore, by and large, it
failed.
>> Massey: How then do you work
out where patterns are going so
that you're then able to
make better choices to support
your journey? >> Caan: Life's
all about not necessarily being
an expert on the answer,
but it's about being an expert
on the question, and I
think you can go through life
and almost be fearless,
but have the ability to ask the
right questions.
>> Massey: When I was ill,
I really tried to understand my
world. How on earth could I go
from being ill to becoming
incredibly healthy? In doing
that,
I tried a number of therapies
for at least a year, a year and
a half to
see what would happen, and I
was attending to every single
detail.
I really tried to understand my
world.
>> Birke Baehr: Just because it
has two tablespoons of tomato
paste would be considered as a
serving of vegetables.
>> Mrs. Baehr: Yeah, he's
definitely always researching
and finding out new
information and sharing it with
me and his dad.
I was logging onto my email one
day and he was beside me
and he saw something online
about mercury and high fructose
corn
syrup, and he asked me, you
know, what that was.
>> Baehr: I started looking
into it and reading the
ingredient list on
hamburgers, buns, salad
dressings, and even peanut
butter,
and finding out that high
fructose corn syrup is in almost
everything. That was pretty
much my epiphany right there,
and
I said to my mom, me as an 8
year old kid, that I'm
not going to drink sodas any
more.
Since then, I've gone deeper and
deeper down the rabbit hole and
finding out about GMOs and
pesticides and herbicides
and chemical fertilizer in the
industrialized food system.
>> Massey: Another way of
understanding your world is to
simply listen.
So Richard Branson helped set
up a group of wise world
leaders called
The Elders, and their wisdom
shows us a key lesson in
how to understand your world.
>> Branson: The main attributes
of a good
elder is to be able to listen
to other people
and not to always be pushing
your own ideas, and
you know, you learn a hell of a
lot more by listening than by
speaking, so you know, so I
think,
you know, as I've got older,
I've become perhaps a better
listener than when I
was younger.
>> DeJoria: It's more important
for people to look at the world
around
them and not just be within
into their own teeny little
world here.
Sit on your porch or sit on a
bus stop. Open up and
look at everything around you.
[ Music ]
When you
incorporate the planet as your
life, you realize that many
things you
do affect everybody else.
[ Music ]
>> Massey: In combination with
listening to other's
information, another method
of gaining understanding is to
listen to your own intuition.
>> Branson: I think intuition
is important, and
perhaps intuition comes from
experience and
experience of falling flat on
the face and experience of
sometimes succeeding. And if
I'm deciding to do something
I don't get the countance in
advance. I just do it based on
my intuition. If I'm going to,
say, try to take over
a chunk of Britain's rail
network. Before we took it over,
it was run by British Rail. It
was dreadful.
The trains were clapped out
trains. You know,
I mean I just - my gut feeling
was if we could bring in brand
new trains,
if they could be a lot quicker,
if we could make sure
that people's mobile phones
didn't get cut off all the
time, that we could, you know,
give them good access to the
internet, if we could, you
know, get the staff
motivated, that we could make a
success of it. So you know, lot
of
it is, you know, based on -
it's almost common sense and
intuition.
>> Braden: We are still
learning.
We are deep into the learning
curve, and the irony is
that we must learn to survive
what we've created for
ourselves while
we're still learning. So for
me, it make tremendous sense to
apply what we
do know while we're studying
the principles to understand
them even deeper.
[ Music ]
>> Massey: All of us are born
with certain interests and
skills,
and these will start to guide
you of where you should start to
research and understand your
world. And as you do that and
you
start to learn about where the
patterns in the world are going
and you align the two,
that is when you've found your
purpose.
[ Music ]
>> Alison Pothier: And that
service that I always wanted to
make, and that contribution I
always wanted to make to this
world,
it can happen now. And so I
said bring it on, you know,
bring it bloody on.
[ Music ]
>> Scilla Elworthy: I think it
really is important to search
inside for what
satisfies us at a very deep
level, and then
there begins to come a kind of
a glow because we're
working from an inner source of
power. It's
almost like an inner power
plant inside.
>> Jack Canfield: Well, I think
we have a choice in life. I
believe that everybody's born with a purpose
and you're given a set of
skills and talents to manifest
that
purpose in life.
>> Massey: Pattern that is
aligned with purpose can simply
be one where others will benefit.
Brett now is a guiding light to
help at-risk teenagers break out
of a destructive cycle and get
onto a much more purpose-led
path.
>> Brett Moran: The plan is to
be able to talk to some of the
inmates and engage with them quite
interactively to help them sort
of understand the power of
their minds, to be able to sort of
change the course of direction
or change the path that they're
on, hopefully looking at
their selfs and the
behaviors of what's gotten them
here in the first place.
Fingers crossed, giving them
some inspiration to sort of
walk away from the talk and
sort of feel positive about
their selves, so maybe
choose some different paths and
move forward.
[ Music ]
I just sort of looked at myself
and looked to my thoughts and
my thoughts were quite mental
without realizing how mental
they really were. Then it says,
focus on your breathing,
and it's something so simple,
sounds quite pathetic, but when
I just sort of stopped
and laid in that cell, thought
okay, let's stopped breathing,
started breathing in and
out slowly from my nose and
start becoming mindful, I
started
realizing I had all these
negative thoughts going around
in my head. As a kid, I didn't get that.
I never had
that connection. I wasn't told
how good I was or anything. I
wasn't told how
great you are, how much of a
miracle it is to be you, Brett,
and how powerful
you can become if you want to
become it.
>> Juvenile: Maybe you do think
oh yeah, that's the way I've
got to be, but I'm not blame - it's all
my fault. I've always said it
is, but I get that point
that obviously that's helped
you down
that way.
>> Moran: I feel like I'm a
loner. Yeah, I do feel like I
was born bad. Yeah, I do feel like I haven't got a
chance in the world. Yeah, I
ain't no good at nothing. I'm
good at robbing, I'm good at selling
rO'Vw:bvvB
drugs NBBvj BvB
that lifestyle, I was good at being a
prisoner, I was good at sort of
like talking the talk; I had
all the walk. I was good at all that, but
deep down I didn't feel good
about myself. Now I was always
facing that way,
there's the drug dealer, I was
facing that way, there's the
women. I never faced forward.
I never had my eyes - my eyes
.were in blinkers and I was
always negative when I was
thinking that and I was negative in
thinking that and not being good
enough, always and going to
jail and you know what? I was
creating it. As mental as this may
sound, it sounds like a film.
As mental as it may sound, you
can create anything
that you want. You can create
anything that you truly, truly
desire, but I'm saying that once you
start to use the mind and the
power of yourself, for the
positive reasons, you completely
change the course or direction
of where you're going.
If you can do that, you can do
anything. >> Juvenile 2: He
just showed us that
just because you have a bad
start in life, it doesn't mean
it' going to be like
it the whole way through your
life, whereas I thought once in
trouble with the police,
always in trouble with the
police. He just proved me wrong.
[ Music ]
>> Canfield: A friend of mine
recently, who studies these
things very, very deeply, asked
me, he said, 'Jack, what's the
purpose of the universe?'
I'd never been asked that
question. I said, 'Whoa, let me
think about that for a minute.'
And I kept thinking,
what do I know the universe is
doing for sure? And I thought,
the only thing I know the universe is
doing for sure is it's
expanding. We know that from
physics. So I said, 'I think
the purpose of the universe is
to expand.' And he said,
'That's right.' And
anything that supports
expansion, the expansion of
freedom, the expansion of
consciousness, the expansion of
abundance, the expansion of
love, that's going to
get supported because it's
aligned with what the universe
is doing.
[ Music ]
>> Branson: Here in Ulusaba, we
have a beautiful game reserve,
you know, one of the
most beautiful in Africa, and I
think it's very important that
if you have a
workplace anywhere in the world
that you do everything you can
to look after the
community around it. The first
major thing we did was to set
up a clinic in the area. This
weekend we actually brought a
wonderful team in to help
people hearing aids,
suddenly being able to hear in
both ears.
It was just one of the most
emotional moments of my life.
I think you get the greatest
satisfaction in life
from giving. It was like giving
life back again. It was just
incredible. You know, we wanted
to scream with happiness, and
on the way back in the vehicle,
we literally did, all
had a massive scream for
happiness. It's a great feeling.
[ Music ]
We bring a whole bunch of
entrepreneurs down here to
have a great holiday, have a
great time, but also just to
see how they
can help Africa.
>> Children: Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday. >> Branson: It's just
fantastic, I mean, seeing
all these kids bouncing
in there, just so excited
having a school to go to, and
then to see the happiness
in the teachers' faces and the
parents' faces. >> Woman: This
is my father,
father Enduala. So now I'd like
to thank
my father because he pays me a
fees to go to school
now. I am a manager of this
class, so I'd like to thank you
to my dad. Thank you.
[ Music ]
>> David Hamilton: So when you
paddle into a current, you're
actually swept up by the current.
So in aligning your purpose
with understanding that as we
align ourselves with a current,
then we get swept along by that
current so we become part of
that world,
and as the world evolves, then
we evolve with that particular
world.
[ Music ]
>> Massey: For Alison, aligning
her
purpose meant giving up hear
wealth and status to be able to
do what she was
truly passionate about. >>
Pothier: I exited the industry
ahead
of the market collapse.
[ Music ]
And within months was
full-time dedicated to this
business. So I started a
retreat center
in London dedicated to helping
people
move through this journey. To
many people
it would look like I was
failing, like I was throwing
away a job.
I did, I left the city. I left
the money on the table,
the millions offered. As an
investment banker, that's what
you're leaving
on the table. I said no, I'm
folding
towels on the floor in my center
believing in me.
[ Music ]
So we - there's a
sense of starting over. There's
a new beginning.
For me, Inside Out
Retreats is my childhood dream
come to life.
Everything
that Inside Out Retreats is
offering is everything that I
needed
to come back to myself.
So it is my light after the
dark.
>> Man: The notion
of knowing what results you
want to create, actually
knowing it is very
critical because it's a moment
of commitment. And someone said
at the
moment of commitment, the
universe conspires to help you.
What that means is that at that
moment, you open up to the flow
of resources that
you were not open to
previously. >> Crowd: Speech!
>> Pothier: Well, I want to
start by saying thank you
to everybody who has made this
possible
and who has created the space
and the intention for our
community by being a community
already.
>> Woman: Well, we need to get
the shovels
so you can see the difference
between the mucky clay that's
where the land
was. >> Baehr: I feel that I
would really enjoy to have
my generation to be Generation
A. We need
to be a more healthier race of
people now
because just think, the next
generation will be Generation
Minus
0 and Minus 1, next generation.
I don't want to
have very unhealthy kids. I
want to have a healthy
environment
and healthy neighbors and
healthy people, and be able to
have the people where they
it's not boiled to where it
tastes like a bland thing with
a lot of salt. >> Mrs. Baehr:
It's really good.
>> Massey: How does it feel
when you start to change
and align your purpose?
>> Pothier: Fulfillment for me
seems to have arrived in an
internal freedom to
be self-expressed and quite at
peace with
both abundance and lack, with
both title and no title, with
no business and
a business, with just me in my
life. That is total freedom.
Now I feel like I could
show up. I spent a long time
hiding.
[ Music ]
>> Brett Moran: It just felt
brilliant. It felt
that was the different path
that I was choosing. You know,
it felt like that's where I should be.
I found, like, the light.
That sounds a bit OTT, but I
felt like I found something
inside of me, which was my gift.
[ Music ]
>> Moran: I just felt so normal
to be able to connect with
people. Go straight
forward if you get a bit scared.
And I see beauty in the most
smallest things. When I drive
from picking my little daughter
up, there's this tree that just seems to
speak out to me. It's so
obscure that you'd notice this
tree in the middle
of the M-Free. This tree just
looks so beautiful. It's
amazing. You know, I find
beauty in silly little moments
like that. That's sort of my
mate, that probably sounds completely
mad and they'd have to take 10
pills to see that tree, but I
don't need to do that now.
I've got that buzz. Or opening
my eyes in the morning and
listen to the birds whistle
outside. I used to want to
shoot the birds because I was
so paranoid at 4 in the morning
that I could hear them start,
and I'd start to have another
paranoid day, but now
I wake up to the beauty of
listening to them birds whistle.
[ Birds ]
>> James Caan: I do truly
believe that
changing the life of one person
is like changing the life of a
nation.
You know, everything has to
have a beginning.
[ Music ]
>> Caan: What I want to do is
not only build the village, but
I also want to rebuild the economy
in the village. So each of the
homes that I've built,
I've made sure that everybody
in the village has been part of
that journey,
whether he's a bricklayer,
whether he's a plasterer,
whether he's just a simple laborer.
Once you do that, you're on a
journey and a journey of
recovery,
which is really what this is
about. When you actually
come here personally and you're
physically handing the
certificates out to people to
say this is now your home and
you own it, I think nothing
can replace that expression on
somebody's face, that gratitude,
but I think it's very rewarding
for me, too.
>> Massey: If people, during
their choice point, took a step
back,
examined more closely what
their purposes could be and
then realigned
those with where patterns are
going, we would much more
easily be able to turn
all of the problems in society
into solutions.
>> Newsman: A little old man
has shown himself willing to
make
a supreme sacrifice. >> Barbara
Marx-Hubbard: Gandhi
had a very strong purpose and
he was able to
get everybody to join with him.
And so if you have a strong
purpose, it's one thing to find
out what it is, and then to say
yes to it, and then you have to
make the changes in order to do
it.
Gregg Braden: One of the
fundamental principles that
comes to light again and again and
again is that when we choose to
change
something in our lives, the
healing or the health of our
bodies or the physical reality
around us,
that it's not enough to simply
think about the change, or
wish, or hope for the
change; that we must become in
our lives the very things that
we choose to
experience in our world. We
must become the healing
we must become the cooperation,
we must become the peace, and
to the best of our abilities
live that principle every
moment of every day in our
lives before we can actually
experience it in our world.
>> Jack Canfield: I think what
often happens is we always
think about the world's going to get
better only if those
people out there would change.
The fact is that change has to
start within
ourselves. There will continue
to be conflict in the outer
world as long as
there's conflict inside the
individual. >> Braden: What is
it
about myself that I'm seeing in
the world around me that I'd
like to
change? Something that maybe I
don't like in the world or I
don't like
in my family or in my workplace
or something like that.
How does that relate to
something that I
am or that I claim in my
personal life?
I think this is where the great
leaps in personal
growth occur is the honesty.
>> Pothier: I change the world
I see by first changing it
in me. It's about creating
change in the world around you
by change in your
heart, change in your belief
systems, change in your
perceptions
of the world around you, and
that is
about being the change that you
want to see in the world.
>> Branson: I think everybody
can make a difference in the
world. Some, obviously, only in
quite a small way, some in a
big way.
>> DeJoria: You don't have to
be a politician, you don't have
to be a wealthy person, you don't
have to be in power. You can be
any living thing on this world,
and if
you just walk down the street
and smiled at someone coming
your way,
you're already exchanging
happiness and giving out the
love. If you
see someone that needs a
helping hand, you don't need
money to do it. Just put
yourself there and give them a
helping hand.
>> Quinn: Everybody can make a
positive difference.
[ Music ]
>> DeJoria: To get away from
the power of
power and ego and go to the
power of love, and the
way you do that is you start
doing something that benefits
others
not wanting anything in return.
What you get in
return is so much love and
fulfillment that you've
accomplished this,
you have the greatest power of
them all. And it's not, 'I have
this, I
have this. Look at me,
everybody. I'm special.' The
greatest power of them all
was you were able to help
people through love, and they
love you back. That's the
greatest of all powers. And the
planet is changing right now in
that direction.
So we started Grow
Appalachia, and we planted our
first 100
gardens 2 years ago. The goal
was to take, within 5 to
7 years and feed half of
Appalachia feeding themselves.
We'd
feed them, give them equipment,
give them all the seeds they
want, and they can in return help some
of their neighbors along the
way.
>> Woman: A young man who used
to work
at the Settlement School came
to us, and he said, 'Would you
like to participate in a
gardening grant? What will
happen is that you'll get money
for
seeds, and for tools, and then
workers will come to your
garden 4
to 5 times a year through your
growing season. They'll have
workshops that will
help you to learn how grow.'
Because I knew nothing about
how to grow
anything when I first started
Grow Appalachia.
>> DeJoria: We're moving ahead.
We're exactly on target. We're
not giving away charity;
we're helping people help
themselves.
>> Woman: That first year of
Grow Appalachia, we probably
had more food than we knew what do
to with. We planted corn,
potatoes, tomatoes,
cantaloupe, which that didn't
do well. The turtle ate the
cantaloupe. I was very
mad at the turtle, and we were
able to make those last all
winter and well into the summer.
>> Woman: In central
Appalachia, there's a really
strong culture of giving, so
most families are giving away
all the produce they
grow, except what they're
eating and what they're
preserving for themselves.
People also feel that if
they've been helped by Grow
Appalachia, they should be giving back.
If John Paul's going to give us
his money, we should be giving
everybody
else our food. >> Woman: I
talked to Mom and Dad, and we -
I actually wrote a letter to
John Paul DeJoria to thank him
for giving them money for Grow
Appalachia because it was
wonderful. Sorry.
It was wonderful for our
family, and to be able to see
how
that little tiny area of land
could produce so much food
for me, it was and truly still
is, overwhelming.
And I know that a person
shouldn't get this emotional
about a garden, but
it really has been a wonderful
experience.
[ Music ]
>> Pothier: Initially, when I
had a vision to establish a
center, I thought I would be
doing it on my
own, and what came forward in
opening our doors is everyone
showing up in
themselves to exchange service.
So
we had the builder do the
walls, and we had the creative
person show up and make our
cards and see things for us.
My own sister is a graphic
designer and she said, 'Let me
help.'
All of a sudden, it gave
everyone permission to bring
their gifts forward,
to show up in exactly who they
are so we could fit together as
a
puzzle piece and make it happen.
>> Massey: A major key to
getting your life on the right
track is to align your purpose
with patterns that are much larger
than yourself, but there's
often one thing that gets in
the way, and that's
fear.
You don't even have to overcome
fear. All you
have to do is do it anyway, to
take the action, butterflies
and all.
>> Baehr: People just need to
talk out
what they can say because I had
a difference just by having a
5-minute talk on the
internet. So, just don't mind
the fear.
Go through it, and you'll have
a great time It seems to me like
corporations are always trying
to get kids like me to get
their parents to buy
stuff that isn't really good
for us or the planet I've
spoken at different
TEDx events, conferences, and
food and farming classes,
and it's just been an amazing
experience and an amazing
opportunity for me
to go out there and be able to
make a difference in the world.
[ Music ]
>> Quinn: Everyone is afraid.
It's absolutely natural, and
the people who are most
posturing
as being the toughest folks are
afraid. Someone says,
'I don't believe in that
touchy-feely crap,' you know?
And what are they saying?
They're saying, 'I know that
I've been going through life
leaving behind a trail of human
debris. I know
that I am destroying the system
I live in,
but the notion of changing
terrifies me.'
[ Music ]
>> Pothier: It got to the point
where, you know, fire me if you
don't want this, so I'm going to say
the things that other people
won't say in order to make a
difference around here,
but it would take courage
to do that. It would take
willingness to stand
exposed and look like a fool,
to say something not
only polar opposite of what the
leader is saying but also
sometimes
out of left field.
>> Elworthy: Einstein
said that we can't solve a
problem using the
same consciousness that created
it. We have to somehow shift
the perspective that we're
coming from.
I think one of
the most positive things we
could do is identify the choice
points in
each field, identify the
innovations
that are working and celebrate
them, connect them, and
continually communicate what's
working. And
invite everybody, not just the
great innovators, to
add their particular creative
contribution, and I'd like to
see
an internet site comparable to
a nervous system
for humanity. We could call it
a synergy engine,
and the synergy engine would
help people anywhere put in what
they want to create, find their
partners, add their gift
into the fields where these
great innovations are already
working.
[ Music ]
>> Massey: Choice point
movement uses a social network
built so that
those of us who want to both
change ourselves and the world
are able to
share ideas, find and then
collaborate with each other.
[ Music ]
rNrW'.NXIBp
>> Pothier: I believe that the
in this world, one big picture that is
brought together, that
everybody serving in the
thing they were here to be and
the thing they were here to do
and to fill the
puzzle piece they are meant to
be, in their shape, size, color.
If everybody was doing that, we
could line each other up and
actually
create the picture here, a new
one, a new opportunity,
a new generation.
[ Music ]
>> Pothier: My role or my
purpose in life is
to help people come to the
individuality of them self so
they can serve and connect on
that and create this picture
of a different world.
>> Hamilton: Every single
person can bring about change.
We can all bring about change.
We are so
embedded in social networks and
life that everything that we do
is contagious. I am a great
believer in the idea
that a small group of people
with compassion and kindness in
their hearts can
change the world, and
everything from social network
research is beginning to lend
great support to that idea
because their emotions are
contagious,
our behaviors are contagious.
Every single thing that we do
is always
having a ripple effect, always
impacting on the people around
us.
>> Elworthy: If my primary
perspective is
joy and really enjoying
this life, then I want to be
with other people who are
doing that, who are energetic,
enterprising,
creative, and we will have a
ball together.
>> Massey: The population of
the world is facing
a global choice point in a time
where our individual choices
made today
have a far greater impact on
the world at large than in any
other
previous period, and the
wonderful thing about going
through this
crisis is it gives us this
amazing opportunity to take a
step back,
understand our world, and then
take the choice to align our
purpose so that a lot of the world's
problems could suddenly turn
into the world's solutions and
collectively create
the world we all want to live
in together. Together through
our individual contributions,
we are the change.
>> Braden: Each time the
cycle comes to an end, it opens
a window of
opportunity called the choice
point.
[ Music ]
>> Desmond Tutu: And we will
want to share with
them by helping to connect
voices all over the world.
>> Richard Branson: What we're
trying to do is sort of get a
rallying cry of
everybody who's working in
businesses, who's running
businesses, to join
together to get out there and
just make a difference. Some
people a very
small difference; some people,
a big difference.
>> Pothier: We are
just so very gifted.
>> Moran: Would you do it
again? Take that leap of faith
and enjoy and embrace life. >>
Caan: We are incredibly
resourceful, and we can make
things happen.
[ Music ]
>> Elworthy: Really the solution
is everybody finding that
deeper life purpose and going
for it.
>> Tutu: And then sending off
ripples.
>> Canfield: And knowing that
that purpose, when you're fully
aligned with it,
is aligned with the purpose of
the universe at that moment in
time, you're going to have an
extraordinary life. >>
Hamilton: I'm changing more
than my life.
I'm changing the world.
>> Braden: It opens a window of
opportunity called a choice
point.